JUDY WOODRUFF: But first:
President Trump hosted South
Korea's new president at the
White House today, the first
meeting between the two leaders,
who are looking for a common
approach to dealing
with North Korea.
William Brangham has that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: President
Moon Jae-in arrived at the White
House with tensions over North
Korea still running high.
In the Rose Garden, President
Trump pressed again for ending
the North's nuclear and weapons
programs.
DONALD TRUMP, President
of the United States:
The era of strategic
patience with the North
Korean regime has failed.
Many years, and it's failed.
And, frankly, that
patience is over.
We're working closely with
South Korea and Japan as well
as partners around the world
on a range of diplomatic
security and economic
measures to protect
our allies and our own
citizens from this menace
known as North Korea.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: North
Korea, led by Kim Jong-un, has
already test-launched more than
a dozen missiles this
year, all in defiance of
international sanctions.
South Korea President Moon has
long advocated for diplomatic
engagement with Pyongyang.
And since taking office just
last month, he's delayed full
deployment of the U.S. THAAD
anti-missile defense
system in his country.
Today, though, he warned
of a stern response
to any provocations.
MOON JAE-IN, South Korean
President (through translator):
The North Korean nuclear issue
must be resolved, without fail.
I also urge Pyongyang
to promptly return to
the negotiating table
for denuclearization
of the Korean Peninsula.
President Trump and I
will employ both sanctions
and dialogue in a
phased and comprehensive
approach.
And based on this, we both
pledged to seek a fundamental
resolution of the North Korean
nuclear problem.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Meanwhile,
the U.S. has sought China's
help in trying to rein in North
Korea.
However, yesterday, the
administration announced
sanctions against Chinese
companies and individuals
over their alleged illicit
dealings with North Korea.
But U.S. officials insisted
they weren't targeting
the Chinese government.
Today, neither President
Trump nor President
Moon mentioned China.
On a different subject,
Mr. Trump again criticized
the U.S. trade deficit
with South Korea, and
blamed a 2011 free trade
deal for the imbalance.
He called for new action
to reduce trade barriers
between the two countries.
For his part, Moon played
down the trade issue.
And he announced that the
president and Mrs. Trump have
accepted his invitation to visit
South Korea later this year.
So, where do things
stand between the U.S.
and South Korea, and
how will the two nations
deal with the North?
For that, we turn
to Robert Gallucci.
He was the chief U.S. negotiator
back in 1994 when the Clinton
administration persuaded
the North Koreans to dismantle
their plutonium-based
nuclear program in exchange
for economic benefits.
He is now a professor
at Georgetown University
and chair of the U.S.
Korea Institute at Johns
Hopkins University.
Welcome to the "NewsHour."
ROBERT GALLUCCI, Georgetown
University: Thanks very much.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do you think
today's meeting between Moon and
Trump will help forge a clearer
plan for how to deal
with North Korea?
ROBERT GALLUCCI: I think today's
meeting is a success, in the
sense that the United States
end and the South Koreans
clearly indicated that they
value the alliance very much and
the alliance is important
to the security of both our
countries and the stability of
Northeast Asia.
The way you framed that
question, that it's
going to lead to the
resolution of the issue
with North Korea, is a
bit of a reach from at
least what I could take
away from the meeting.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You
and several other former
Cabinet officials and
senators wrote a letter
to the Trump administration
where you urged that they take
direct immediate talks with
the North Koreans, possibly
send a high-ranking
envoy to North Korea,.
Why do you think
that's a good idea?
ROBERT GALLUCCI: For
a variety of reasons.
I think that people who favor
negotiations do so partly
because the alternatives are
miserable.
There are fundamentally
three options in dealing
with North Korea, and
there always have been
since the end of the Korean War.
One is to contain
the North Koreans.
And we have been doing that,
and we have done it for decades.
And we have been doing that
actually for the eight years
of the Obama administration.
I would say that was a
containment or strategic
patience type of policy.
The problem with containment is
that it doesn't stop with North
Koreans from developing assets
and capabilities and threat that
we would rather they not have.
So, a second option is to
negotiate and to see whether we
cannot reach an agreement with
the North Koreans where they
agree to give up a capability
which we believe they shouldn't
have and is threatening
to friends and allies.
That is what we attempted
to do in 1994 with
the agreed framework.
A third option is to use
military force, something
which we are proud
always to say is on the
table, something
we haven't done.
And, by that, we do not mean
launching another Korean War.
We mean the use of military
force in some limited way
to attack the capability.
Right now, it's not only the
nuclear weapons, but it's those
long-range, ICBM-range ballistic
missiles.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In your
letter, though, you're
clearly arguing for
point two negotiation.
And there are some people, as
you well know, in the foreign
policy establishment who say
you cannot negotiate
with the North Koreans.
And I'm just curious
how you respond to that.
ROBERT GALLUCCI: I think
it's a fair thing to
say that negotiations
with the North Koreans
are not guaranteed to succeed.
And, certainly, through
the years of the Bush
administration, Bush
43, the 2000s, there
were many efforts by
very capable people to
negotiate with the North
Koreans, and it didn't
produce very much.
And even the agreement
which stuck for eight
years, the agreed framework
I mentioned before,
stuck for a while and stopped
the plutonium program from
producing nuclear weapons.
Ultimately, it
collapsed as well.
So, there is reason to say that
negotiations with the North
Koreans are not easy, they
may not succeed, but they may
be a way of getting to where
we want to get to, limiting
the capability of the North
Koreans to do harm to us and
our allies without the use
of military force and
without the risk of a major
war in Northeast Asia.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The Chinese
have floated another possible
entreaty to the North Koreans,
and that's for the U.S. and
the South Koreans to stop these
annual military exercises.
How important is that to
the North Koreans and do you
think that that's a good idea?
ROBERT GALLUCCI: The North
Koreans have said frequently
that they are very unhappy about
the U.S.-ROK military exercises.
And I do believe they
are unhappy about them.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You actually
had some recent meetings with
North Korean officials and you
heard this very same issue.
ROBERT GALLUCCI: It was the
first thing on their agenda
that they were most concerned
about.
What's interesting about that,
of course, is that, from our
perspective, the alliance
between the United States and
Republic of Korea is key to
both our countries' security,
and a manifestation of the
strength of that alliance
are those military exercises.
So that will be not high on
our agenda to give up easily.
Is that something that might
be on the table, along with
the nuclear weapons program of
the North Koreans?
Plausibly.
But that's pretty
much down the road.
I wouldn't imagine
negotiations would begin there.
They would begin with
talks about talks, I think,
without preconditions.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Last night.
Do you think the Trump
administration has any
interest in any of the
things you're taking
about?
ROBERT GALLUCCI: I don't
know what the Trump
administration is interested in.
There have been mentions by the
secretary of state, secretary
of defense and even the
president of possibly talking
with the North Koreans.
I worry that, in their minds,
are preconditions that will make
negotiations someplace between
difficult and impossible.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Robert
Gallucci, Georgetown University,
thank you very much for being
here.
ROBERT GALLUCCI:
Thank you very much.